---
layout: post
title:  "Site Upgrades and Overview"
date:   2014-10-23 16:30:00
categories: posts
location: Austin, Texas
tags: programming design 
---

I revamped a lot of things about the site, making it both more aesthetically consistent and more feauture-complete. Most of it was fiddling around with fonts, formats, and graphics.

##PROGRAMMING
The template I'm using for this site is the excellent [travelog theme](https://github.com/rowanoulton/travelog-theme), with some heavy customization by me.<!--preview--> The main additions I have made so far are implementing the tagging system (I don't know how the original one is designed to work) and changing the way posts are displayed on the main page. Once I get enough posts that pagination becomes an issue, I'll probably end up tweaking that, too.

For the tagging system, I just made individual pages under /tagged for each of the six tags. I wanted to just have a main "tagged" page that would employ HTML querystrings to populate the page with the appropriate posts, but it seems like, unless I'm wrong, we're not allowed to do that in Liquid. I also made the tag elements at the bottom of the post clickable. In any case, I kind of like this approach better. Limiting myself to six tags should help keep my posts focused, and it also means I can have that nice row of tag page links across the top.

Here's some of the code:

{% raw %}
	---
	layout: default
	title: design
	---

	<!-- loop through pages and assign all ones tagged as:
		page.title
		yay for modularity!!
		unfortunately, we can't access the HTML querystring in liquid, which means
		that we have to make individual pages :(
		-->
	{% for post in site.posts %}
	  {% if post.tags contains {{page.title}} %}
	  	{% include post.html post=post content=post-excerpt %}
	  {% else %}
	  {% endif %}
	{% endfor %}
{% endraw %}

As is evident, it's a pretty simple implementation. The tags are specified in each post's YAML front matter (the stuff between the triple dashes, at the top).

I also changed the way posts are displayed on the front page. The default is to display the full post, which isn't really suited to this website, since it contains (will contain!) so many longform, image heavy posts. Therefore, I altered the builtin "excerpt" method inside jekyll, and have the front page consist of the excerpt and a link to continue reading. For some reason, this link also appears at the bottom of the full post. I'll fix that at some point.

##DESIGN AND GRAPHICS

All of my small icons are SVG files. If you don't already know what vector graphics are and why they're amazing, see [this post]({% post_url 2014-10-22-favicon %}). I used many of the same methods to get these graphics ready for production. The nice thing about vector file formats is that they're easily edited in plain text, so I was able to size them just right for my site. I also had to learn to use Inkscape, which included learning how to run Inkscape on OSX... which amounts to black magic through the GUI. I ended up caving and just using the `open <path to inkscape.app>` route, which I reccommend if you're experiencing problems. The location and mail icons are sourced from [here](http://www.flaticon.com), again with some modifications by me. 
