---
layout: post
title: Heritage Lost
date: 2014-10-23 22:38:07
categories: posts
location: Austin, Texas
tags: musings
---

So today's Diwali. This is kind of a big deal if you're Indian, and I just so happen to be Indian (even though very few people have correctly identified that fact on first blush who were not themselves - Indian); in fact, I'm on a video call with my family right now as they celebrate. As it works out, the internet back home isn't really sufficient for them to be able to sustain an HD video call with me, so I have the leisure of typing this up without feeling too guilty (it sounds like a party over there!). Ironically enough, the bigger Diwali celebration was just down the road from where I live, actually, and I didn't even go. Or watch.<!--preview-->

My heritage has always been a point of contention for me. I'm very Indian - I don't look or act it, but that facet of my identity is very well developed. I visit India often, I travel around, I eat the food, I speak the language, I read the books, I know the religion - I'm an Indian, through and through. And so are my parents. And so are my grandparents. And so were my great-grandparents. If you entered me in a dogshow, I'd have a flawless pedigree. 

Not only am I Indian by breeding and culture, I'm Indian by experience. I've spent a lot of time in India - cumulatively, it's a not insignificant fraction of the entire time I've spent on the planet. Some of that was visiting family, but my trips have never been in the doldrums. I have all sorts of crazy stories - I've been harangued on a desolate highway by bear-trainers, I've dealt with malaria, I've gotten soaked to my bones in the monsoon, and I've even been close to the site of a terrorist attack as it occurred. Beyond these high-impact events, I've had a chance to view a lot of stories and meet a lot of people that you could never have done in Plano, Texas. I've met friends in slums and giant mansions on hills, I've had lunch with the "third-world"-wealthy (man that GINI coefficient is nuts) and I've bought dinner for the destitute, for whom the mere idea of a "dollar" is ludicrous. I think it's safe to say that all these experiences are at the core of the Indian experience, and thus I think it's safe to say that the core Indian experience is a part of me. These are experiences that I'll carry with me for the rest of my life, and I don't think I could have poossibly gotten them anywhere other than the madhouse that is India. Recently, I've even started to look forward to visiting India - not only is there the appeal of reuniting with friends and family you haven't seen in years, there's also that secret thrill that builds up in my gut when I get on that Emirates flight to Mumbai. Maybe this time I'll cheat death again, or maybe this time I'll meet another famous author (Ashok K. Banker has a white PS3 and a dog, so you know I've actually been there), or maybe I'll just get another sequence of quiet evenings spent people-watching on a balcony. India holds both the astonishingly beautiful and the unspeakably ugly. India is the closest I've ever been to the human condition - the real human confition, the life that the majority of people on this planet lead. When I watch the ground peel away from me out of that elliptical window, I know that I'm about to experience a wide variety of things that I never would've gotten back home.

And yet, I'm not an Indian. I'm an American. In fact, it says so right on my passport - I was born on US soil, and I'm an American citizen. Every time I go back to India, I'm reminded of this fact, and it's not like every once in a while someone will say that "oh you're the American, huh?" The fact that I'm not really an Indian is shoved in my face at every possible opportunity. I look different. I talk different. In America, I'm a scrawny, short, unnoticeable guy, but in India, I'm tall, distinctive, and I always attract stares. I'm an exotic, an NRI, an ABCD, an export good.

So my family has just now alerted me that they've given me a virtual tikka - I hope they haven't actually smeared red pigment across my mom's phone - and I've suddenly been brought out of my reverie. 

Looking over what I've written (proofreading is an important part of becoming a better writer!), I don't know what I'm trying to really address here. I guess it's just that I've always struggled with my identity. I'm not just an American, and I'm certainly not just and Indian. But there's a lot of uncertainty still left for me to sort out - perhaps as I age and have more independent experiences, this feeling will finally crystalize and I'll be able to write something more cogent.

This is also the first time I really have missed home. I guess now, the break feels real. Not only have I broken off from my family, the people I lived with for 18 years, I've broken off with all my family before them. For god knows how many years, everyone in my family tree was Indian. I'm the first set of branches that's not - I was the first born in America out of both my dad's and my mom's families. Heritage is a funny thing.

For further reading, I'd reccommend [American Born Chinese](http://www.amazon.com/American-Born-Chinese-Gene-Luen/dp/0312384483/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1414123797&sr=8-1&keywords=American+born+chinese) by Gene Luen Yang.