---
layout: post
title:  "Graduate School"
type: posts
tags: grad school 
---

What follows is a (paraphrased) transcript of my conversation with 
[Dr. Gustavo de Veciana](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~gustavo/), my graduate probability professor,
mainly about pursuing graduate school. I imagine that many of these questions may be relevant to you,
too. This is the (largely) pro-graduate-school perspective.

Whether a PhD is right for me
-----------------------------
  A PhD will take something like 5-6 years of my time, at least, and I'd really like to have that 
time in my twenties to have more fun, save a lot of cash (which means I have to make a lot of 
money), start something up, etc. Plus, I don't think I really want to go into academia, since 
it has become really difficult to get good positions, even for very, very qualified people,
and I think quality of life is better in industry. My colleagues at work mostly have PhDs (or
bailed out of PhD programs), and they claim that getting a doctorate is only worth it if you
intend to go into academia. Also, producing original research looks really daunting.

  >Yes, that is what the situation is like. But it seems like the academic situation is a whole lot
better in EECS than in math. There is a lot less room in math. As far as taking up your time, yes, 
these are your best years. But it is fun, and it is worth it if this is your passion and what you
truly care about. As far as the money goes, yes, you won't make a lot of money as a PhD student. But
it might work out on the entrepreneurial side; you have time to dive deep technically and think about
real business problems.
  >
  >Also, many students do work part- or even full-time while pursuing their PhDs, although I am of
the opinion that it worsens the quality of the experience since you aren't fully immersed. For 
professors, involvement in industry usually means their teaching suffers, as they prioritize their
research over their teaching. And, to be successful in academia, you must really enjoy teaching.

  But I do like spending lots of time reading papers and thinking about problems, especially problems
I find interesting, which I might not get to do in industry. So, at least in that sense, academia
seems like a good fit. 

  >Indeed.

  The principle problem with industry in this regard is that you don't really have a lot of 
freedom to pick what area you'll be working in. Basically, you're reliant on getting the team you
want, at the company you want, and with the compensation and benefits you want, which may be the
triple threat that proves too elusive. I tend to like just about anything within the data science
umbrella though, so I don't think this is a huge issue for me, at least right now.

Field
-----
  Compounding this is the issue that I don't even know what I'd like to go into. I will wind up
with a BS in pure mathematics from a good program, but I'm not sure if that makes me a viable 
candidate for admission into a good EECS program. I know that I don't really want to do math in
grad school, unless it's super applied. A really close friend of mine is from Berkeley Math and it
just doesn't sound like an experience that I would enjoy.

  >You seem like you would be a good fit for an EE, or CS, PhD program.

  Within EECS, the problem is then that there is a lot of domain specific stuff that I don't know
that I would have to learn. I don't know what they teach the undergrad EEs about circuits and 
filtering and w/e, for example. But I have some hardware experience, I really like physics and chemistry,
and I have a pretty strong CS background, so I'm not that worried; the trouble is just communicating
that.

  >If you're interested primarily in theory, then you have the right background, especially since
you've already taken several graduate classes in EE. Generally, even within the department you'll
be applying to some group, and they'll have their own desires for what courses they will want you
to have taken. It is always easier to admit an EE student to an EE graduate program, but you're
interesting enough that it should be fine.

  I'm interested broadly in robust optimization and decision making under uncertainty, whether that
uncertainty stems from data quality issues, data availability issues, or the actions of an adversary.
I know some stats, math, algos, optimization, and machine learning, and have some work experience
on causality testing, etc. I think there are some professors here that do that kind of research,
mainly in the CS department.

  >That's a really hot area to be interested in. You should talk to the following people in the ECE
department about working with them, either on their projects or on something you're interested in,
although I recommend working on their projects unless you have a really good idea:
>
>  - [Haris Vikalo](http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~hvikalo/)  
>  - [Alex Dimakis]()  
>  - [Constantine Caramanis]()  
>  - [Sujay Sanghavi]()  
>  - [Alexandra](http://www.ece.utexas.edu/speakers/alexandra-branzan-albu)  
>  - [Peter Stone](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~pstone/)  
>  - [Joydeep Ghosh](http://ideal.ece.utexas.edu/ghosh/)  

Programs
--------
  I'd like to go to a really good program - industry is so tempting and I should be able to secure
a really good position in industry, so the opportunity cost of doing a PhD is high. But it's really
difficult to get into those programs, especially with a less than perfect transcript and no real
letters of recommendation. I have a B and maybe 2 A-'s on my record, which is already not nice,
but hopefully the fact that I took so many graduate level classes will offset that. But I haven't
worked with any professors, so it will be difficult to get enough good letters of recommendation to
get into a good program (I think).

  >Your record should be fine. Especially haven taken so many graduate courses so early, programs 
will know that you're a prepared candidate. You just have to show them that you are research material,
and the best way to do that is to work closely with a professor and have a good reference letter.

  There's also always the option of just going for a Master's - but this feels like cheating. I 
don't see the point of going to grad school unless it's for a PhD, especially since I have the 
privilege of taking many graduate-level courses here, as an undergraduate.

Preparation  
-----------
  I would have to start looking for research opportunities asap, as well as thinking about what I
would actually want to pursue in graduate school. But I might have to leave my job, and I don't 
really want to do that, since I really like my work, my office, and my colleagues. 

  >You have time yet. Just start reaching out to people asap and you'll be fine.

General
-------

I learned a lot this semester, but I don't want to have learned all (much) of this material and not
be able to apply it to problems I face in the real world. I still have a hard time modeling things 
out effectively, and so I have a hard time applying what we covered in this class and my stochastic
processes class. For example, I was trying to model when certain roommates were in the apartment, 
along with their typical comings and goings, from incomplete entrance/exit data...

> Modeling stuff is the hardest part. I'm of the opinion that maybe the best way to improve your 
modeling ability is to just...do more modeling. I'm not even sure that it is something that can be
taught effectively. One nice thing about grad school is that you will have a lot of time to just
try and model many different problems.
